[THEME MUSIC]
>>JON GABRIEL: Did that
whole binge, starve thing.
Maybe I'd lose five pounds, gain
10 pounds, lose five pounds,
gain 10 pounds, until I
gained over 200 pounds.
Had this kind of thought that
came into my head that said,
your body wants to be fat.
And as long as it
wants to be fat,
there's nothing you
can do to stop it.
I started healing my microbiome.
I started nourishing my body
by adding healthier foods,
healing my trauma, and I
did a lot of visualization.
What I became aware
of in that space
is that there's not
just this universe.
There's a nearly infinite number
of variations of this universe.
And as I'm talking to her,
I'm working on this blockage,
and it opened.
It's like the timeline was
kind of going like this.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Interesting.
>>GABRIEL: And her
past was changing.
A lot of times when we
think that the problems are
too big for us, whether it's
the war, or pandemic, whatever
it is, that can be changed
too because there's
a version of reality where that
doesn't exist to that extent.
You can actually
move to a version--
>>REGINA: To the other--
>>GABRIEL: To the
version of reality--
>>REGINA: --timeline.
>>GABRIEL: --where
it's happening better.
>>REGINA: How many of you
have dealt with the desire
to have your body in better
condition or lighter,
but you can't pull it together?
Can you imagine a
situation in which
you use your mind, not diets,
to reshape your physical body?
Jon Gabriel did and
lost over 200 pounds.
But it isn't the
weight that we're
going to have this
conversation about.
That's only a part of it.
It's about the
power of your mind.
And the power it
has over matter.
Welcome, Jon.
>>GABRIEL: Thanks, Regina.
>>REGINA: Here you
are so slim and fit.
It's hard to imagine
you hit 410 pounds.
But we have some pictures.
I mean, wow.
So first of all,
you were dieting.
Now, sometimes people say, when
they're in an obese state say,
oh, I'm dieting.
But they're secretly
eating or other things.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, well--
>>REGINA: What were you--
>>GABRIEL: I think everybody
that's dieting is secretly
eating, first of all.
>>REGINA: Right.
I think that's true
because you're now
in a deprivation mode.
>>GABRIEL: Exactly, yeah.
>>REGINA: So you've
got to trick yourself
and sneak things and all that.
What were you actually doing
when you got up to 410 pounds?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, well, I moved
to New York back in the '90s.
And I just started--
I was working on Wall Street.
And as soon as I started
working there, high-stress job,
I started gaining weight.
I didn't think too much about
it the first couple of years.
But after two years, three
years, I gained 50, 60 pounds.
I thought, OK, I'm going
to do something about it.
And I'll go on a diet.
And I ended up
trying pretty much
every diet you can imagine.
I mean, obviously, I
did the low calorie.
That's like the
first thing you do.
And the thing is that
works for a short time.
And like you say, but then
your body goes into this--
>>REGINA: Body adjusts.
>>GABRIEL: --scarcity mode.
And it's like, hey,
this doesn't feel right.
This doesn't feel safe.
This isn't what I want.
And then you have
this big binge.
And so I did that whole
binge starve thing--
two weeks dieting, one
big binge, like this.
And then I kept gaining.
Like maybe I'd lose five
pounds, gain 10 pounds,
lose five pounds, gain 10 pounds
until I gained over 200 pounds.
And when I say I
tried everything,
I worked face to face
with the late Dr. Atkins
from the Atkins diet.
>>REGINA: So you weren't having
Snickers bars on the side?
>>GABRIEL: I was.
But the thing is I
was trying not to.
>>REGINA: But you're
trying not to, yeah.
>>GABRIEL: I was
doing the thing.
But what happened is
maybe three or four days
I wasn't doing that.
But in the fourth
day, I'm exhausted.
I'm tired.
I'm stressed out.
>>REGINA: You want some sugar.
>>GABRIEL: Screw it.
And boom, and then we'd
have that huge binge.
So that was part and parcel.
I think dieting and
bingeing, to me,
are two sides of the same coin.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GABRIEL: And it wasn't until--
pretty much it was at 2001,
I had this kind of thought
that came into my head.
It was like this
voice that said,
your body wants to be fat.
And as long as it
wants to be fat,
there's nothing you
can do to stop it.
And even now as I say this--
>>REGINA: Goosebumps.
>>GABRIEL: --20-plus
years, I get goosebumps.
>>REGINA: So, OK, now you have
to deconstruct that for us.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, I'm happy to.
>>REGINA: As they
say now, unpack it.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah,
so let's do that.
Let's unpack because what
happened at that point
is that I stopped dieting
because I realized
it wasn't addressing the issue.
And I started
asking the question,
why does my body want to be fat?
And that led me on an approach
that not only healed me,
but then I wrote the book "The
Gabriel Method" which really
is about hey, these
are the reasons why
your body would want to be fat.
>>REGINA: So what did
your body tell you?
Why did you want to be fat?
>>GABRIEL: So what
happens is your body gets
certain hormonal signals that it
confuses, for example, stress.
And I was living in
a very high stress--
>>REGINA: On Wall Street.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
It will cause certain
hormonal signals to your body
that it will confuse as
like a famine, for example.
Because when we were living out
in the wild thousands of years
ago, there was only
two types of stress.
There was immediate
acute stress,
like you got to run away
or you're going to die.
Or there was a
chronic low-grade--
>>REGINA: Like famine.
>>GABRIEL: --that's the only
one thousands of years ago.
So our bodies are
hardwired to interpret
chronic low-grade
stress, not acute stress,
but chronic low-grade
stress as a famine.
So today--
>>REGINA: So your
life on Wall Street--
>>GABRIEL: Was chronic
low-grade stress.
>>REGINA: The stress of
day-to-day transactions
was chronic low-grade stress.
>>GABRIEL: Chronic
low-grade, nonstop.
>>REGINA: And oftentimes,
people will use food.
They'll use drugs, whether
it's cocaine or whatever--
>>GABRIEL: To turn to--
>>REGINA: "Wolf on Wall
Street," all of the above.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, exactly.
To turn those signals off.
>>REGINA: Sex.
Right.
>>GABRIEL: But what
the main signal that
is for certain people
and for me in particular
is your body actually
thinks it's a famine.
And the thing is if
you're in a real famine,
once you start eating, you're
not in a famine anymore.
So your body's like, I'm good.
But if your body's
getting that famine signal
and it's not coming
from food, then it
doesn't matter how much you eat.
It's still getting
the famine signal.
And that's how you end up--
>>REGINA: Because the stress
continues even though the food
supply is there.
>>GABRIEL: The hormonal
signal is the message
is chronic low-grade stress.
Chronic low-grade stress,
chronic low-grade inflammation
are the two things that cause
your body to gain weight.
And those are the things
that you have to address.
>>REGINA: Was there anything
deeper psychologically?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, absolutely.
>>REGINA: So what else was
saying I want to be fat?
Your body wants to be fat?
>>GABRIEL: So a lot of
people have trauma issues.
And it actually makes them
feel safer in a bigger body.
>>REGINA: To be buffered.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
And I've worked with
people years now.
I mean, I wrote the book I
don't know 15, 20 years ago.
But I talked to people.
And I remember talking
to this one lady.
And she was with her
sister at a store.
And some handsome guy walked in.
And she thought the guy
was looking at her sister.
And she goes, oh, I'm safe.
He won't look at me because
I have the extra weight.
I'm safe.
And I thought and I
said to her, as long
as you have that feeling, like
that's what's keeping you safe,
there's no way your body's
going to let go of the weight.
>>REGINA: That's true.
And a lot of women who
especially if they've
been through a violent situation
or sexual abuse in particular,
this can very easily
become a default
pattern to buffer yourself.
>>GABRIEL: And for me,
that wasn't my issue.
But I did live through abuse,
physical abuse, growing up.
And I felt safer being bigger.
And I did have a
business partner
when I was working
on Wall Street who
was a very aggressive guy.
And there was a part of
me that the child inside
was actually afraid of him.
>>REGINA: Oh, sure.
So you got a lot of
buffer going there.
>>GABRIEL: At a certain
point, I was twice his weight.
And I thought, I
could sit on him.
>>REGINA: Did that help
you feel more powerful?
>>GABRIEL: It did.
It helped me feel
safer in the situation
because his communication
style was very aggressive.
And growing up, that type
of aggressive communication
usually led to a
physical confrontation.
Now, we never had a
But my body always
felt like, OK, I'm
not safe in this situation
until I was twice his size.
And when I was twice his size,
I thought, he can't touch me.
I could just sit on him
>>REGINA: Isn't
that interesting?
So because a lot of
women are watching
this and a lot of women
who relate and have
been through this, and even if
they don't know yet consciously
that this is a safety issue
more than anything else--
but also what about
the woman who, man
or woman, who are the nurturers?
For example, health care
professionals, nurses,
oftentimes end up
bringing a lot of treats
to work to soothe themselves
and be friends with one another
and pick up a fair amount of
weight in that profession.
That seems to be pretty common.
>>GABRIEL: Well, there's
a lot of reasons.
One of them, they could
have that trauma also.
But the other is
it's a way of giving
yourself love if
you're not getting
enough love or enough fun.
>>REGINA: If you're giving
all your energy away.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah,
if you're depleted
or if you're not having
enough fun in your life.
You're not having enough
love, enough connection,
food can fill that void also.
And that's really common.
>>REGINA: So that's not
so much a safety one.
It's a lack of affection,
love, or whatever
it is that gives you joy.
>>GABRIEL: Exactly.
It's another form
of nourishment.
Food is nourishment, right?
So is love.
So is friendship.
So is connection.
>>REGINA: So where
did your understanding
of how to bust this come in?
Because we're going
to start talking
about parallel realities
and such that are--
where you are now in your life.
But at the time, you were
actually using these principles
and maybe didn't understand them
as completely as you do now.
>>GABRIEL: No I didn't,
not until it was 2006.
And we can get to that.
>>REGINA: OK.
Tell us what
happened up till then
when you started
losing the weight
with this whole internal aspect.
>>GABRIEL: As soon as
I made the realization
that I have to figure out
what's causing my weight,
I quickly realized that there
was a lot of emotional trauma
that I had to deal with,
which I did deal with.
I understood that also I wasn't
nourishing my body well enough
and that's another thing that
can cause you to-- because no
matter how much you're
eating, if you're not getting
the nourishment you need--
>>REGINA: No real nutrients.
>>GABRIEL: It's like
a nutritional famine.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GABRIEL: You're
getting all the calories,
but you're not
getting the nutrients.
And if your stomach isn't
able to digest it also
because you have
microbiome issues,
so I started healing
my microbiome.
I started nourishing my body
by adding healthier foods,
healing my trauma.
And I did a lot
of visualization.
And visualization
was something that I
learned as a 10-year-old.
My father taught me
visualization when I was 10.
I had horrible migraine
headaches every single night.
Nothing would work.
Aspirin wouldn't work.
I would sit in a dark room for
hours and just like be in pain.
And he was a dentist.
And he used visualization
to help people
with pain in his profession.
And so he sat me down.
He calmed my body.
He said, I want you to
imagine that we're skiing down
this slope-- we used
to go skiing together--
and there's this bucket of
black sand on your shoulder.
And as you're skiing down,
you're tilting the black sand,
and it's falling away
as you're skiing.
And that black sand
is your headache.
And we got halfway down.
And now the headache's
halfway down, halfway gone.
And it was.
We got down to the bottom,
and the headache was gone.
>>REGINA: What a beautiful gift.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
Yeah, he gave me it.
And it was like, it was
the only thing that worked.
And then I learned
how to do it myself,
this whole visualization.
And then eventually,
I could do things
like I just visualize--
like usually when
you have a migraine headache,
it's on one side or the other.
So say if it's on this side,
I would visualize the headache
just going into my finger
and flicking it away.
And it would go.
And I never had migraine
headaches after that.
>>REGINA: So you'd
already learned
how to work with the
mind as a youngin.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, yeah.
And I did it to stop smoking.
When I was 14, I
visualized that--
you know the tar in the street
that's really repulsive when
they're--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GABRIEL: So I visualized that
the cigarette was that tar.
And I would visualize
tasting it and so like
being repulsed by
it-- so creating
this negative association
with visualization.
And that worked really well.
And so I've used visualization
in many different things.
I started using visualization
to create my perfect ideal body.
As I was going to
sleep at night,
I visualized having
stomach muscles
and being in shape again because
I was an athlete in school.
I was a ski racer
and a triathlete.
And I was in great shape.
So every night as I
was going to sleep,
I'd visualized my ideal body--
stomach muscles, tight skin.
I visualized running on
the beach and sprinting.
I visualized eating
healthy foods.
I visualized my body
wanting to be thin.
I also visualized
feeling safe, like having
a safety barrier of energy
around me, feeling protected.
And as soon as I did
that, everything changed.
Not only everything changed
in terms of my weight.
I started losing weight.
Everything changed in my life.
Because as soon as I did that,
that was right after 2001--
>>REGINA: And you were
still large at this point.
>>GABRIEL: I was large.
I was 400 pounds.
I started doing
this visualization.
Two weeks later, 9/11 happened.
And that kind of changed my
life because I was almost
on one of those planes.
I was supposed to fly from
Newark to San Francisco.
If I booked the flight, I would
have booked the United Airlines
flight that's nonstop in the
morning, United Airlines flight
93 which is one
of the ones that--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GABRIEL: But my
partner booked the flight
because I was away at a retreat.
And he found a cheaper
flight connecting out
of San Francisco.
Oh, no, connecting
out of Cincinnati.
I was actually really
mad at him for that.
We saved $150.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
I bet you weren't
a few hours later.
>>GABRIEL: I wasn't.
Well, eventually, I wasn't.
Yeah, he saved my life.
But that had a real
impact on me because--
>>REGINA: What did you feel
the message was to you there?
>>GABRIEL: I felt like life
gave me a second chance.
I felt like here I
was killing myself,
doing something I didn't like.
>>REGINA: And you would
have made a decision that
would have finished it.
>>GABRIEL: And I
would have died.
I was already killing myself.
I was 400 pounds.
I was living a miserable life.
And I thought, life just
gave me a second chance.
I don't know how much
longer I'll be around.
But I want to start
living my life now
for now, like living exactly
the way I want to live now.
>>REGINA: So you started
these visualizations.
And what are the first things--
because your body still
looked the same.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: But in your mind,
you had the body you have now.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And there's
some real anomalies about
that, you would say.
Like your skin doesn't sag.
It didn't sag.
Your skin came back as though
you were never overweight,
which is very unusual.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about the first things
you started noticing
when you dropped
into this parallel
reality of potential
that you were creating.
>>GABRIEL: So the first
thing is I wasn't as hungry.
I just wasn't as hungry.
That's it.
I wasn't craving the junk food.
I wasn't thinking about food.
I had more energy.
And then I discovered I had
really big sleep problems.
And that's a huge issue.
So if you have--
usually, overweight people,
when they're heavy enough,
they have sleep apnea.
And then they never get
into a deep enough sleep.
And that causes a
hormonal problem
that causes you to gain weight
and have junk food cravings.
I keyed in on that.
And I got that taken care of.
And like I said,
then 9/11 happened.
And I left New York.
This is like within
a couple of weeks.
I left my company.
We sold our company.
I moved to Western Australia,
literally as far away
as you can get.
>>REGINA: Why in the
world did you do that?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, so my wife
at the time, her best friend
moved out there because she
had married an Australian.
And he had bought a farm
in a place called Denmark.
Western Australia's the most
beautiful place in the world--
all the way down south
in Western Australia,
completely remote, but on the
southern ocean, cleanest air,
cleanest-- old world
trees, gorgeous trees.
Real estate was really cheap
and all this kind of stuff.
And I just wanted to
get out of New York.
I just wanted to get
as far away from it.
And I wanted to be in nature.
I really missed nature.
And she liked it.
She wanted to move there.
And so I bought a house there.
And we moved out there.
And all of a sudden
now, I went from working
on Wall Street, where I never
saw the sun in the wintertime--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GABRIEL: --eating
junk food all the time,
400 pounds, to being
in the situation where
I'm in this beautiful place
in nature, beach and trees,
meditating like three
hours a day, visualizing.
>>REGINA: It radically
changed life.
>>GABRIEL: Praying all day.
And the weight's
melting off of me.
And this is why I
wrote the book is
that when the weight
was melting off of me,
I wasn't making an effort
to restrict myself.
I would make an effort to eat
healthy, to add healthy things.
But if I wanted McDonald's
or if I wanted cupcakes
or whatever it was,
I would eat it.
But the weight was
still melting off of me.
And so now I'm in this situation
where before there was nothing
I could do to lose weight.
Now there's nothing I can
do to keep the weight on.
If I wanted to keep the
weight on, I couldn't.
It was just melting off of me.
>>REGINA: Because
in this lifestyle,
that whole famine
low-grade stress was gone.
>>GABRIEL: Everything was gone.
Everything that was causing--
I was no longer in a place
that I hated, no longer doing
what I hated, no longer in
a confrontative situation
with a business partner.
I was in a supportive,
loving place.
We bought a house.
And we were living very simply.
My expenses were
next to nothing.
I had fruit trees.
>>REGINA: It sounds idyllic.
>>GABRIEL: You know it
was really idyllic--
and the weight was melting off.
And after two years,
all of it had gone--
all of it.
I had the exact body that I
visualized with the stomach
muscles, with the
tight skin, all of it.
>>REGINA: Yeah, tight skin.
>>GABRIEL: And then
that's why I come like--
>>REGINA: And we have
pictures so people
can see because there
are people who've said,
oh, no, it's
photoshopped, right?
No, and you had a person that
took the original photo who
said, this is not photoshopped.
I saw that on your site.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, I had
to do that because I
was getting so much of that.
>>REGINA: Because
most people do not
understand how
much mind permeates
our cellular structure
and can alter it.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah,
I even had someone
say that I photoshopped the
before, like I was never
really fat.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
Right.
>>GABRIEL: I don't know
what to say to that.
I'm like, I can't help it.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I was.
Ask my former wife.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now this is
melting off of you.
You're in Australia.
You're leading a very
stress-free life.
And now you're starting
also to discover
things I think about the nature
of reality, the nature of time,
and so forth.
So let's talk about 2006 forward
in that part of the journey.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, so one of the
things that happened to me just
going back to the very
end of my weight loss--
so I had lost probably 175
pounds, something like that.
And it came to me really
strongly to do a detox.
My friend had just done one.
He mentioned an expert Dr. Joel
Fuhrman I think his name is.
>>REGINA: Oh, Fuhrman.
Yes, I remember that.
>>GABRIEL: And so
I read his book
"Fasting and Eating for
Health" or something like that.
And he had gone like
42 days on just water.
It was just like crazy.
And I had no intention of
doing something like that.
But I wanted to do a detox.
And so I went out
for a bike ride.
And I'm biking up a hill.
And I feel this like slashing
feeling right here in my liver.
It just felt like
someone put a knife.
And I hear this woman's
voice and it says,
your liver needs cleansing.
Go on a detox.
So I come home and I think,
well, just maybe I'll
miss lunch or something.
I get home.
And right before I went,
I had hung these pictures
up of meditation
masters that I follow.
>>REGINA: Not livers.
>>GABRIEL: Nothing like that.
But one of them
is Anandamayi Ma,
which is a beautiful Indian
saint who lived 100 years ago.
And I always felt
connected to her.
So I hung up this picture
before I went biking.
When I came home, the
picture had fallen.
It had a glass frame.
And the glass had
broken and the picture
was cut in the exact spot--
>>REGINA: Oh my god.
>>GABRIEL: --that I had--
>>REGINA: That's a pretty
mystical experience.
>>GABRIEL: And what I felt like
is someone hit me over the head
with a mystical baseball
bat is what it felt like.
I went into another
world for 21 days.
And I did a 21-day water fast.
I was not hungry.
I never thought about food.
It's like I thought--
>>REGINA: But you were almost
in an alternate reality though.
>>GABRIEL: I went--
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about where you went here.
>>GABRIEL: I thought
I was dead actually.
I'll tell you why--
because I read a lot.
I used to read a lot
of stories about people
that do astral travel.
And one of them was like
the Magus of Strovolos,
it was his name.
He was a Cyprus man.
And people that do astral
travel, the first thing
that they all talk about it.
And they don't know
each other, so there
must be something to it.
They talk about how when
they do astral travel,
their guides come
and they say, hey,
we need you to help us take
somebody and transition them
to the light.
They don't know they're dead.
And they can't see people,
but they can see you.
And they can't see us.
They're like an intermediary.
So they go up to the
person and they go,
you notice you haven't
eaten much recently
and you notice you haven't
gone to the bathroom.
And yeah, I noticed that.
And then you kind of gently
ease them into the idea
that they're dead.
>>REGINA: The reason.
>>GABRIEL: And then they
take them up into the light.
That's what they do.
And so I'm like, I haven't
eaten maybe 10 days.
Halfway through it I'm like,
I've been on water for 10 days.
I'm not hungry.
I'm sitting on a bench.
I'm waiting for somebody to
come and say, have you noticed--
>>REGINA: Am I dead?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, exactly.
So I wasn't very much
in an altered state.
And after that, I had
lost all the weight.
And that's just when-- and
my father had just died,
so I went to New York and--
>>REGINA: Were people
shocked when they saw you?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, they were.
>>REGINA: I mean, I can't
imagine the homecoming
after losing 200 pounds.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, I know.
It was huge.
It was like-- as
a matter of fact,
his best friend, the
first person I saw
walked right by me.
He didn't recognize me.
>>REGINA: Oh, sure.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
But for one reason,
I went up to New York
and I went to my
friend Khaliah Ali.
She's the daughter
of Muhammad Ali.
She was being honored
by this guy Sri Chinmoy
who, at the time,
I don't know who--
he used to do this thing which
was a visualization thing where
he would lift people
up on a platform.
And he'd do it
with visualization.
And I went up to support her.
And he saw my
picture and he said,
this was a spiritual
transformation.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>GABRIEL: And then
he gave me this--
it's like it's an
honor that he does
where he lifts me up, puts me
on a platform, and lifts me up.
And so I felt like I had made
an upgrade in my reality.
I'm now living in a place
that's just absolutely gorgeous.
I'm doing what I want to do.
I have the body
I wanted to have.
And spiritually, there's a very
different feeling in my body.
>>REGINA: What happened-- I know
this is a little tangential,
but people will
probably be wondering.
What happened to
your relationship?
You became a different person.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, it ended.
My wife was no longer
interested in me.
She actually said, I'm not
attracted to you anymore
after I lost the weight.
>>REGINA: Because
whatever the totality--
>>GABRIEL: She said--
>>REGINA: -- made you support
yourself and protect yourself
as a heavy man wasn't
the one she loved.
>>GABRIEL: She says, like
you're a different person.
>>REGINA: You were.
>>GABRIEL: And I was
a different person.
And that was sad.
And I was sad.
And that was tough.
But it was a
blessing in disguise
because it let me be
that different person
and not be that different
person while trying
to be the other person
at the same time.
>>REGINA: So it's important.
I wanted you to say
that because others are
going through the same thing.
>>GABRIEL: Well, I've had like--
leaving my job on Wall Street,
that was a huge transition.
And I became another person.
And then when that ended,
that was another person.
But that let me go
out in the world.
And after that, I
spent years traveling
around doing events,
and seminars,
and lectures, and working
with people, and coaching,
and writing, and
all those things
I don't think I could have
done in that framework.
>>REGINA: Right.
No.
Very true.
So now let's go into--
>>GABRIEL: 2006.
>>REGINA: Yeah, 2006.
>>GABRIEL: So 2006, I did
another 21-day water fast.
I had already lost the weight.
And I was just inspired.
I don't remember the
exact details of it,
but I just felt
like-- at least I
was going to do water fasting.
It just kind of kept going.
And that turned out to
be a really powerful
spiritual experience
where I felt like a higher
consciousness was--
at the end of it,
I felt like a
higher consciousness
was living in my body.
And the only way I can describe
it is, from what I've read,
is what people call a
cosmic consciousness
where you have this awareness
like you're aware of everything
that's happening all at once.
And when I say
that, I'm not aware
of every single conversation
that's going to unfold
or something like that.
But the same way you're
aware of your body,
like I know where my--
I know what's going on with my
knees right now and my shins.
You're aware of everything.
You're not aware of every cell
or every electronic connection.
But you're aware of your body.
I had this idea that
I was everything.
I was you.
You were me.
But we're all what Tim calls
a seventh consciousness
or something like that.
So I lived in that
space for a few days.
And what I became
aware of in that space
is that there's not
just this universe.
There's an infinite,
nearly infinite number
of variations of this universe.
And this was in back
in 2006 where maybe you
heard about the idea
of alternate universes
or parallel realities.
But it wasn't like it
is now where Marvel
is going Doctor Strange
in the multiverse
and this in the multiverse
where it's really kind
of like become very mainstream.
And so it wasn't
in my consciousness
to think about that.
But when I was in that
super-conscious state,
I was like, wait a second, this
is just one version of reality.
There are infinite number
of parallel universes.
>>REGINA: And that's really what
broke you free to continue on
to do what you're doing today.
>>GABRIEL: Exactly.
I actually had experience
where I was talking to someone
and I could see them moving
from one version of reality,
one timeline to the other.
So I'm talking to them.
We were just in a store.
It's a small town.
You know everybody there.
And so I ran into someone, and
she was upset about something.
And as we're talking,
I could see her energy
moving through her body.
It was like white and yellow
kind of energy moving.
And there was a blockage,
like I see a blockage
like right in this area.
And she was talking
about some problems
that she was having
in her life how
she wanted certain things to be
a bit different than they were.
And I could see that the
blockage was the problem.
The blockage was keeping her
in a lower vibrational place.
And as I'm talking to her,
I'm working on this blockage
and it opened.
And I could see her
energy shifting.
And as I'm working on
it, what I'm seeing
is this weird thing
where she's moving--
she's got a different future
but a different past, too.
I could see-- it was
like a timeline was
kind of going like this.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>GABRIEL: And her
past was changing.
Not hugely, like she had
sick parents or whatever,
but there was differences.
>>REGINA: It would be because
if she's made that transition,
that means there might have
been other supporting--
>>GABRIEL: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --changes in the past
that had made that decision.
>>GABRIEL: And then finally
the blockage opens up.
She has this huge cry.
I don't remember
the conversation.
I don't have any idea
what we're talking about.
But it was like
maybe to her I said
something that was meaningful.
She's hugging me.
She's crying.
It was right there
in the grocery store.
And I could see
that she had moved.
Because the blockage
opened up, it
allowed her vibration
or energy, the amount
of energy she's channeling
to go into a higher state.
And she was allowed
to exist in the state
that she wanted to in the
reality she wanted to,
in the version of reality
that she wanted to
because her energy was
complementary to that.
It was a higher
vibrational reality.
And she was able to live in
that because she had a higher
vibration going through her
because the blockage had opened
up.
And I watched the whole thing.
And then she moved
into this other reality
where she was in a
better situation.
>>REGINA: What a
wonderful story.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, so that
lasted for a few days.
And then when it went,
I felt like I was just
plunged down to the
depths of hell overnight.
It was really-- it was tough.
It was a tough
transition to come back
to where I was from there.
>>REGINA: From that moment.
>>GABRIEL: Because I thought I
would always be in this place.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>>GABRIEL: And when you're in
that place, you have no stress.
You have no fear.
You have no--
>>REGINA: Right, right, right.
>>GABRIEL: And so I went--
>>REGINA: So back to reality.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, it
was back to reality.
But that lasted for me
because I knew from that point
that we are living in a zillion
different versions of reality.
We're living in a multiverse.
There's infinite number
of parallel realities
and that what determines
what reality, that's
a number of things that do it.
But one of the biggest
ones is what your energy
is, how much energy
you're able to channel,
and mostly how open your
energy channels are.
Because if your energy
channels are not open enough,
you can't channel the energies,
the higher energies that
will allow you to exist in the
higher dimensional versions
of reality.
So I spent from then,
since 2006 till now,
I have meditation that I
do for several hours a day
actually where I'm opening
my energy channels.
And that's what I'm doing.
And once my energy
channels are open,
that's when I ask my higher
self and the higher energies
to come through and lead me to
the highest version of reality.
And that's kind of like
my ritual every day.
>>REGINA: That's your practice.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So what I'm seeing is
when we incarnate, we come in
and we're a package.
And we have--
I almost see it like
the rays of the sun, all
of these potential parallel
realities and timelines.
And depending on the stimuli
in our lives in that moment,
depending on the
choices we make,
we're going to hop onto
any one of those paths.
And we can hop off of
it and onto another one.
We're not stuck there.
>>GABRIEL: That's the thing.
>>REGINA: And even I did
an interview recently
with Dr. Tara Swart on the
subject of neuroplasticity
that goes well with this whole
notion of parallel realities.
You make a decision.
Your whole support structure
of greater mind and brain
will rewire itself to
support the new reality
and timeline you've jumped on.
Now, that's my little
circular view of it.
Explain it to us the way
you would explain it.
>>GABRIEL: Yes, so the
first thing you have to do
is look at a timeline.
So you look at a timeline,
the whole timeline from start
to finish is already created.
It's like we made
a movie outside.
And then in that
timeline, you can go fast.
You can go forward.
You can backwards.
You can go slow.
You can go fast.
You can watch it
over and over again.
It's the same.
And so when we're
in a timeline, if we
were to stay in
that timeline, we're
going to do exactly
what it's going to be.
It's never going to change.
But what we don't realize is
there's an infinite variation.
You pick up that cup or
you don't pick up that cup.
That's two slightly
different variations.
You decide tomorrow
to run for president,
that's another variation.
Maybe it's a bigger variation
because it doesn't just change
how much water you're getting.
It could change the whole world.
So there's different things that
happen, but they're all there.
And what we don't realize
is our consciousness
and our nonphysical
energy is moving
seamlessly, moment by moment,
from one version of reality.
>>REGINA: Between potentials.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: This is
all about potentials.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
Because when we think
of parallel universes--
we watch I think the
first movie in the '90s,
Jet Li had a movie,
"The Kung Fu Master,"
where he was going from
a parallel universe
to parallel universe killing
all his versions of himself
because he'd take the power.
You know what I mean?
So you have to have a portal.
There's got to be an opening.
That's not the case
for nonphysical energy.
For your consciousness and
your nonphysical energy,
it does not need a portal.
It's just moving seamlessly.
>>REGINA: It's close.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
So we have this-- so it's almost
like we're riding a roller
coaster in the sense of having
our own version of reality
based on all the
potentials of reality.
And to speak to
your question of why
we're in one versus
the other, there's
several reasons why we might
be in one version of reality
versus the other.
One is what our
expectations are.
We might have
certain expectations
about who we are, about
how wealthy we are,
how much we deserve love.
All these different things
are going to affect--
>>REGINA: Those are
all conditioning.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, to--
>>REGINA: To the subconscious.
>>GABRIEL: Then there
might be soul contracts.
You came here to work with this
person or to help with this war
or whatever.
There's soul contracts that
keep us in certain realities.
And then when you consider
all of those things, all
of those things being
equal, the range
of realities that you're
going to exist in then
is affected by your vibration.
Because if you look at like
a hot air balloon, a hot air
balloon, when you
raise the vibration
of the air in the hot air
balloon as you make it hotter,
it's going to go up
to a higher place
where the vibration is higher.
It's going to match the
outer vibration of the air
outside and inside.
You cool it, which is
the lower vibration,
it's going to come back down.
It's going to
match that reality.
So it's the same with us.
Our vibration, the
way-- everybody I'm sure
has a definition of
what our vibration is
and how to change it.
But for me, it's very specific.
There's an enormous
amount of energy
that we could
channel into our body
through our energy
channels, our meridians,
whatever, acupuncture
meridians, nadis,
whatever you want to call them.
There are channels for our life
force energy to come through.
If those channels
are blocked, then we
can't channel that much.
If our channels are
completely open,
there's no limit to how
much we can channel.
And we're usually
somewhere in between.
So depending on how much
energy you can channel,
that's going to
affect your vibration.
The more energy you
can channel, and those
are higher vibrational
energies, the higher
you're going to go up in your
realm of possible experiences.
To get to that, you're going
to be at the highest level
of your possible exposure.
So you're going to be
living at the highest level
that you could
possibly be living--
>>REGINA: Your potential.
>>GABRIEL: --of your potential.
>>REGINA: Conversely,
we get into patterns,
something bad happens.
We have trauma.
OK.
Now, we can't stop
licking that thing.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: We just keep
going back and picking at it
and picking at it.
Let our mind grind on it.
Maybe find other
people in our lives
that will grind on it with us.
And so we're actually taking
ourselves to a lower potential.
Let's talk about how
without our own knowledge,
you're doing this all the time.
>>GABRIEL: So the
thing about trauma
is that trauma actually does
cause blockages in your energy
channels.
You dissociate.
You know when people say,
I don't want to go there.
I don't want to think about it.
And if the trauma
is so great, you
don't even have memory
of it, which literally
means there's a part
of your energetic being
that you can't go to which
means there's a blockage.
So trauma causes blockages.
And if you think
of it like a hose,
a fire hose is pouring out
an enormous amount of water.
But if it was just
a garden hose trying
to pour that same
amount of water,
you can't because
it's too small,
because the energy
channels are smaller.
In the same way if
there's a blockage, which
is what trauma causes,
that's going to put you
in a lower vibrational state.
So if you're in a lower
vibrational state,
things are going to
get lower and lower.
And then what
happens is bad things
happen when you're in a
lower vibrational state.
>>REGINA: And
those are timelines
that are your potentials, too.
>>GABRIEL: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It goes
both directions.
>>GABRIEL: Exactly.
And then when the bad things
happen, you get angry.
You get upset.
You get stressed out.
You're in a fearful state.
All those things
cause more blockages
and more constrictions to
the flow of your energy.
And that makes you
more and more dense
because you can't channel
those higher vibrations.
So the way I saw it when
I look at the multiverse,
I see it as an ocean
of possible universes.
So there's timelines going
all the way up like an ocean.
And if you look at an ocean, if
you're very dense like a stone,
you're going to go down to
the bottom of the ocean.
Whereas if you're like a
sponge, you have opening,
you're going to be at--
>>REGINA: You're going to
rise, you're going to surf.
>>GABRIEL: Rise
at the top, right.
So when your energy channels are
open, you become like a sponge
and you rise to the higher
better versions of reality.
When you're blocked, you
become like the stone.
And you go deeper and deeper.
So people end up in this vicious
cycle where they've had trauma.
It's causing them to go deeper.
Now, those deeper
versions of reality
are just like in an
ocean when you go deeper,
there's more pressure.
It's darker.
It's colder.
It's more constricted.
It's exactly the same.
The metaphor is very accurate
as far as this multiverse--
>>REGINA: So it's very important
when one experiences trauma.
And we can go back and
undo it in the past, too.
But when one experiences
it to not reinforce it.
And I don't know why
this popped to mind,
it may not be at all relevant,
but it popped into my mind.
So I'm going to say it.
And it's personal.
And so on two
occasions, and one was
my best friend's
older brother, I
experienced being
drugged, date rape.
Now, I didn't seem to
carry the trauma forward.
My body knew what was going on,
but I had absolutely no memory.
So my mind wasn't engaged.
My emotions weren't engaged.
So what constitutes
trauma in that case?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, that's
the toughest type of trauma
to deal with because your
mind is dissociated from it.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I had no idea.
>>GABRIEL: It's still
very much trauma.
And we have different
versions of that.
And I have worked
with people where
after working with
them for six months,
that's when they finally
have a memory of something
similar to that of
being drugged and--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GABRIEL: And so that has to
be worked through like hypnosis
or regression analysis,
regression therapy,
cellular release.
>>REGINA: Yeah, because even
though you don't remember,
it's not registering, you
don't have emotions around it,
it's in there.
>>GABRIEL: That's the most
severe type of trauma.
The most severe type of trauma
you either don't remember it
or you don't have
any emotion toward it
or you just, I don't
want to go there.
And that has to be integrated.
There's a great analogy in
the 2016 movie "King Arthur"
that was made by Guy Ritchie.
He was the director.
>>REGINA: I know I saw that.
>>GABRIEL: It was
really well done.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>GABRIEL: But here's the thing
that was so cool about it.
So the boy, King Arthur--
>>REGINA: Yeah, refresh me.
I'm trying remember the scenes.
>>GABRIEL: It follows his
life just from childhood
where he sees his parents,
the king and the queen,
getting killed by his uncle
who was a monster at the time.
And then he goes
off and is raised
in a brothel in Londinium.
And he has no memory, no
memory of being king or prince
or his parents being
kings, none of that.
He just thinks he spent his
whole life in a brothel.
And when he was a teenager,
the sword in the stone
appeared at--
it was underwater
and then it appeared.
And everybody had
to try it to see who
the king was, who Arthur was.
And he had to.
He had no choice.
He had to try it.
So he tried it not expecting
it and he pulled it right out.
And the second he pulled
it out, his eyes glow.
He's getting all this energy.
He has his memory.
As soon as he gets
all this energy,
he's getting a memory
that he doesn't
know what this
memory is, but he's
seeing someone being killed.
He passes out.
And so for for a large
portion of the movie,
he can't channel the
energy of the sword.
Because every time he looks--
he picks up the sword,
all he sees is painful memory
that he doesn't want to see.
So he has to go on this
journey, a healing journey,
where he's finally able
to see the whole thing.
He sees the whole thing.
He remembers.
He watches his
father being killed.
mother being killed.
He integrates this trauma
that was so severe that he was
completely dissociated from it.
And then he could channel
the sword, the energy.
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>GABRIEL: And it's
an incredible analogy.
>>REGINA: I don't know
that I did see that film.
What is it called?
>>GABRIEL: It's either called
"Arthur" or "King Arthur,"
2016.
>>REGINA: I would
remember that, 2016.
>>GABRIEL: Guy Ritchie.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>GABRIEL: Lionel
Richie's brother.
Yeah, it was great.
Really well directed.
>>REGINA: I'm writing it down.
I have it on my list.
>>GABRIEL: But I don't know
if they were conscious,
if that was their intention.
>>REGINA: But that's
what they did.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, it's
a perfect analogy
of how you have to
integrate trauma in order
to channel higher vibrations.
And when you channel
the high vibrations,
that's specifically how
you get to the higher
versions of reality.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now let's talk about how we
move between multiverses.
Is there a portal?
We only have about
five minutes left.
I want to get into this.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: So how do we
then consciously move
within this multiverse
to parallel realities?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, it's
not through portals
because it's our
consciousness is moving.
It's our nonphysical.
>>REGINA: So we
don't need a portal.
>>GABRIEL: We don't
need a portal.
It's our nonphysical
reality that's moving.
And the way to do it, the way I
do it is I spend a lot of time
doing a visualization where
I'm imagining white light first
in my navel and then coming
up through the ground,
through my feet, and
then through my head,
and then through my arms.
And so in all these different
ways as I'm visualizing this,
it's opening my channels.
Because when you
visualize energy
going through your channels,
you're opening them.
Eventually, I feel
that my channels
are so open that it could
handle any level of transmission
of energy.
And that's when I
ask my higher self
to completely occupy my body
with the highest energies
possible.
I actually feel this like
explosion of white light
go through my body.
And then I know I'm
in like the highest--
I'm moving to the
highest reality possible
because I've raised my vibration
to the highest extent possible.
And that's something
I do every day now.
I've been doing it for
years and years and years.
And it always leads me--
I never try to specifically
say, I want to get this job
or I want to get
this relationship.
I don't do anything like that.
I just get into the place
where I'm completely open.
Maybe I'd visualize, let's say,
if I wanted more abundance,
for example, you can
visualize the feeling, what
does that feel like
to-- what would
you feel like if you had
all the money you wanted,
or you had the
relationship you wanted,
or you had the body you wanted,
what does that feel like?
You get into that vibrational
state of that feeling.
You let these higher vibrations
come in and amplify that.
And then you're going to go to
the version of reality that's
going to give you that feeling.
It may not be the exact
job that you visualized.
And I don't believe you
should visualize an exact job
or it may not be--
>>REGINA: I agree.
>>GABRIEL: --the
exact relationship.
And I don't think you
should visualize it.
But what you'll be in,
you will be in a reality
where you are feeling--
>>REGINA: Feeling.
>>GABRIEL: --the way you
would feel if you had
whatever it is that you wanted.
And you usually do have it,
but it's never exactly the way
you think it is.
But then you get into a place
where, wow, I feel abundant.
I feel loved.
I feel like I'm in
incredible shape.
The world is at peace.
It's not just you.
It's the world.
A lot of times when we think
that the world the problems
are too big for us, whether it's
a war, or famine, or pandemic,
whatever it is, that
can be changed too
because there's a
version of reality where
that doesn't exist to that
extent, and you can move to it.
You don't have to feel
powerless to that.
You can actually
move to avert the--
>>REGINA: To the other--
>>GABRIEL: --to the
version of reality--
>>REGINA: --timeline.
>>GABRIEL: --where
it's not happening
or where it's happening
better, in a better situation.
>>REGINA: How does this not lead
in a sense to mass psychosis
with everyone on
their own timelines
in different
versions of reality?
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, I think
it is a mindblower.
It is a mindblower
because the reality is
we are all on our own timeline.
We're interacting--
to some extent,
yours is slightly
different than mine.
Maybe it's 99.999% the
same, but there'll always
be some differences as we
make different choices.
And then if there
are huge choices,
there'll be huge differences.
So it does blow your mind.
>>REGINA: It is.
I mean, it really
is mind-bending.
So to recap what you said, you
have a practice where you go in
and you start allowing the
brilliant white prana to flow
in through your feet,
up into your core,
and from above, down below,
and ultimately an explosion.
So it goes all the way
out into your extremities,
which raises your
vibrational frequency which--
>>GABRIEL: Because that's the
higher vibrational energy,
exactly.
>>REGINA: Yes, and that
puts you in a position
then to start employing
your thoughts,
your desires, feelings,
ideas, or whatever,
while you're in that state.
And then you
automatically kind of move
timelines into this new reality.
>>GABRIEL: Well, if you
go back to the ocean
of universes analogy, imagine
you're a scuba diver, right?
So a scuba diver is going to
have this buoyancy compensator,
it's called.
So if he wants to go up, he puts
more oxygen and the buoyancy--
he goes up automatically.
That's what you're doing.
You're going up automatically.
You will go up automatically.
When you create the feeling,
the desired feeling that you
want of being abundant, or
being loved, or being safe,
you create that.
You amplify it with
the higher energies.
You open your channels enough
to channel the highest energies
possible, mega amplifies it,
and then you go up automatically
to that version of reality.
And that's a way to live life
that's completely empowering.
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>GABRIEL: Yeah, because you're
all the time getting yourself--
>>REGINA: You're the author.
>>GABRIEL: Yes.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: You are in
control, in a sense.
But you have to allow for the
uncertainty of exactly what it
looks like.
And I agree with you.
You don't put
something specific.
Like for women who are-- say,
a man or a woman who wants
a partner and is feeling--
they want that
love and affection.
So you would move through
this beautiful process,
you said, but feel
yourself feeling--
>>GABRIEL: What
does that feel like.
>>REGINA: --the exquisite kind
of love, love or affection
that you're bathed
in in that moment.
You can't see anything.
You don't know who it is.
But you feel it.
Feeling is sticky.
And it will take you there.
>>GABRIEL: It's an energy.
>>REGINA: It's an energy.
>>GABRIEL: And even if
there is someone specific
that you want, like say
you're in love with someone,
then you ask the question
like, what do you imagine it
would feel like if you
were with that person.
And then what I
usually do is I take
that feeling, and
so vibration, I
imagine every cell in my body
vibrating with that feeling.
And then--
>>REGINA: Very good.
That's a nice completion
piece because we're almost out
of time and, wow, it just flew.
And I know that you do workshops
and talks and your website,
The Gabriel Method.
It's there.
You're there for people.
>>GABRIEL: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So any final
thought before we go?
>>GABRIEL: There's
just nothing more
important than doing the
internal work of raising
your own vibration, of
opening your energy channels,
asking your higher self
to work through you,
and then allowing
the magic to happen.
>>REGINA: Thank you so much,
Jon, for joining us today.
It's been very
truly inspirational.
>>GABRIEL: My pleasure.
>>REGINA: Appreciate it.
>>GABRIEL: It's been fun.
>>REGINA: I hope you found
this absolutely fascinating
like I have.
I love it when old concepts,
such as law of attraction,
are brought into a deeper
concept of knowledge
and are made useful.
You can connect with
Jon's work by the way
by going to
thegabrielmethod.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]